docs: wild goose case vscode blog (#1812)
block/goose: documentation/blog/2025-03-21-goose-vscode/index.md

---

> title: "Cracking the Code in VS Code"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Cracking the Code with VS Code MCP"
```

> title: "How Goose Catches AI Errors with Langfuse"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Cracking the Code in VS Code"
```

I think you accidentally left the old title.

Author: I updated it, but forgot to update my commit, thank you!

> description: Get detailed insights into Goose's behavior with Langfuse's observability tools.

Author: Yes, thank you!

authors: 
    - tania
---

![blog cover](vscodestream.png)

Want to use Goose in VS Code? On the recent [Wild Goose Case livestream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hG7AnTw-GLU&ab_channel=BlockOpenSource), hosts [Ebony Louis](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ebonylouis/) and [Adewale Abati](https://www.linkedin.com/in/acekyd/) were joined by [Andrew Gertig](https://www.linkedin.com/in/andrewgertig/), Engineering Lead at Cash App, as he demonstrated the new VSCode MCP and how it brings powerful Goose-assisted coding capabilities directly into VS Code.

<!--truncate-->

# What is the VSCode MCP?

> The [VSCode MCP Server](https://github.com/block/vscode-mcp) and its companion VSCode Extension enable AI agents like Goose to interact with VS Code through the Model Context Protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [VSCode MCP Server](https://github.com/block/vscode-mcp) and its companion [VSCode Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=block.vscode-mcp-extension) enable AI agents like Goose to interact with VS Code through the Model Context Protocol.
```

> The [VSCode MCP Server](https://github.com/block/vscode-mcp), and its companion VSCode Extension, together enable AI agents like Goose to interact with VS Code through the Model Context Protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [VSCode MCP Server](https://github.com/block/vscode-mcp) and its companion VSCode Extension enable AI agents like Goose to interact with VS Code through the Model Context Protocol.
```

The extension maintains synchronization between Goose and your VS Code environment to understand your project structure and make contextually relevant suggestions. During the live demo, this came in handy as Goose navigated complex codebases with precision.

## Interactive Code Modifications
Rather than making direct changes, the extension presents modifications through VS Code's diff tool. This ensures that no code changes happen without your explicit approval, allowing you to keep control over your codebase.

## Progressive Complexity Handling
During the demo, the VSCode MCP seamlessly handled tasks ranging in complexity, from basic text modifications to implementing interactive features like animated emojis with mouse interactions.

## Real-time Visual Feedback
Developers can see proposed changes in real-time with the diff view, making it easy to understand exactly what modifications Goose is suggesting before accepting them. This was demonstrated when an emoji's sizes visually while preserving existing functionality.

# What's Next for VSCode MCP?
The features don't end here. The team is actively exploring several exciting features to take VSCode MCP to the next level:

> - **Custom diff tool for granular control** - This means you will be able to be selective on specifici parts of changes you want to accept or reject.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Custom diff tool for granular control** - This means you will be able to be selective on specific parts of changes you want to accept or reject.
```

- **Smart navigation to specific code locations** - Imagine being able to ask Goose to take you directly to a function definition or a specific implementation.
- **Enhanced linting integration** - To help maintain code quality standards automatically, making it way easier to fix issues before production.
- **Terminal integration for command execution** - This would allow Goose to execute commands and display results right in your development environment.
- **Potential VS Code sidebar integration for Goose chat** - Andrew showed a quick preview of an early prototype showing Goose running directly inside VS Code.

# Community and Contributing
The project is open-source, and welcomes contributions from the community. If you'd like to support the project or directly contribute to it, you can check out [the VSCode MCP repo on GitHub](https://github.com/block/vscode-mcp), or [join the Block Open Source Discord](https://discord.gg/block-opensource) if you'd like to ask the team any questions or start discussions.

You can also follow the [tutorial showing you how to integrate VS Code with Goose](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/tutorials/vscode-mcp).

<head>

>   <meta property="og:title" content="Cracking the Code in VS Code" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta property="og:title" content="Cracking the Code with VSCode MCP" />
```

  <meta property="og:type" content="article" />
  <meta property="og:url" content="https://block.github.io/goose/blog/2025/03/21/goose-vscode" />
  <meta property="og:description" content="Connect Goose directly to your code editor with this Visual Studio Code MCP." />
  <meta property="og:image" content="http://block.github.io/goose/assets/images/vscodestream-74eafa34e7ae10cfb738feddecc98519.png" />
  <meta name="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" />
  <meta property="twitter:domain" content="block.github.io/goose" />

>   <meta name="twitter:title" content="Cracking the Code in VS Code" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta name="twitter:title" content="Cracking the Code with VSCode MCP" />
```
